1. You need to create (generate) latitude,longitude pairs (ie. spatial coordinates) for 12 locations. One of those will be where your home/apartment/dorm room is. The other 11 would have to be spread out - use your judgment, try to span the campus area, choose locations inside and outside, nearby - we don't want to cover a 'huge' region, or at the other extreme, sample just parts of a single building!
2. Now that you have 12 coordinates and their label strings (ie. text descriptions such as "Tommy Trojan", "SAL", "Chipotle"..), you are going to create a KML file (.kml format, which is XML) out of them using a text editor. Specifically, each location will be a 'placemark' in your .kml file (with a label, and coords). Here is more detail. The .kml file with the 12 placemarks is going to be your starter file, for doing visualizations and queries. Here is a .kml skeleton to get you started (just download, rename and edit it to put in your coords and labels). NOTE - keep your labels to be 15 characters or less (including spaces). Here is the same .kml skeleton in .txt format, if you'd like to RMB save it instead and rename the file extension from .txt to .xml. NOTE too that in .kml, you specify (long,lat), instead of the expected (lat,long) [after all, longtitude is what corresponds to 'x', and latitude, to 'y']!
3. Download Google Earth on your laptop, install it, bring it up. Load your .kml file into it - that should show you your sampled locations, on Google Earth's globe :) Take a snapshot (screengrab) of this, for submitting.
4. Install Oracle 11g+Oracle Spatial, or Postgres+PostGIS on your laptop, and browse the docs for the spatial functions. Here is my page that walks you through installing a packaged version of Postgres.
5. You will use the spatial db software to execute the following two spatial queries that you'll write:
• compute the convex hull for your 12 points [a convex hull for a set of 2D points is the smallest convex polygon that contains the point set]. If you use Oracle, see this page; if you decide to use Postgres, read this and this instead. Use the query's result polygon's coords, to create a polygon in your .kml file (edit the .kml file, add relevant XML to specify the KML polygon's coords). Load this into Google Earth, visually verify that all your points are on/inside the convex hull, then take a screenshot. Note that even your data points happen to have a concave perimeter and/or happen to be self-intersecting, the convex hull, by definition, would be a tight, enclosing boundary (hull) that is a simple convex polygon. The convex hull is a very useful object - eg. see this discussion.. Note: be sure to specify your polygon's coords as '...-118,34 -118,34.1...' for example, and not '...-118, 34 -118, 34.1...' [in other words, do not separate long,lat with a space after the comma, ie it can't be long, lat].
• compute the four nearest neighbors of your home/apt/dormroom location [look up the spatial function of your DB, to do this]. Use the query's results, to create four line segments in your .kml file: line(home,neighbor1), line(home,neighbor2), line(home,neighbor3), line(home,neighbor4). Verify this looks correct, using Google Earth, take a snapshot.
Using SGM 123 as the center, compute (don't/can't use GPS!) a set (sequence) of lat-long (ie. spatial) co-ordinates that lie along a pretty Spirograph(TM) curve :)
Create a new KML file with Spirograph curve points [see below], convert the KML to an ESRI 'shapefile', visualize the shapefile data using ArcGIS Online, and submit these four items (as a separate, bonus.zip file): your point generation code (see below), the resulting .kml file ("spiro.kml"), shapefile (this needs to be a .zip) and a screenshot ("spiro.jpg" or "spiro.png").
